Constitution 2007-2008

Mission statement:
Outdoors at UVa is a group of students and community members united by their desire to enjoy outdoor activities with friends, while promoting safety and environmental preservation, educating others about nature, and developing leadership skills.

I. Activities: On a regular basis, Outdoors at UVa facilitates such outdoor excursions as hiking, camping, backpacking, rock climbing, mountain biking, fly fishing, trail running, canoeing, kayaking, caving, skiing, snowboarding, and certain other suggestions that come our way.

II. Environmental Awareness: Outdoors is committed to promoting an active and caring respect for the natural wilderness around which our community is built. Previous service projects include assisting the Appalachian Trail Foundation in parts of Shennandoah National Park, the annual canoe/cleanup of the Rivanna Watershed with the Rivanna Conservation Society, Stream stabilization project in Azalea Park, trail maintenance at Walnut Creek county park, and trail building with the Nature Conservancy.

III. Education: Education is an important aspect of Outdoors at UVa. Students are encouraged to participate in activities they have never tried before. Basic, free instruction is provided by senior members of the club, with a focus on safety and technical development. Outdoors at UVa is also committed to promoting a heightened sense of environmental awareness both within our membership pool and in the local community.

IV. Membership: Membership is open to all full and part-time students, faculty, staff, employees, and alumni of the University of Virginia.  Membership is also open to local community members who are at least 18 years of age.  Outdoors at UVa defines a local community member as a legal resident of one of the following locales: the cities of Charlottesville, Waynesboro, and Staunton; the counties of Albemarle, Green, Orange, Louisa, Fluvanna, Buckingham, Nelson, and Augusta within the state of Virginia.  At least 51% of the members, or the required percentage in the CIO treasurer's manual, whichever is greater, must be current University of Virginia students in order to retain status as a CIO.  Memberships for non-students may therefore be limited on a first-come, first-serve basis, if needed.  Local community members who are not students, faculty, staff, employees, or alumni of the University of Virginia may not borrow equipment from Outdoors at UVa for personal (non-club) use, but may use such equipment on trips officially sponsored by Outdoors at UVa.

V. Officers:
Co-President: Meghan Magennis

Co-President: Eric Stauffer

Vice President/Treasurer: Lila Warren

Vice President: Billy Kohlbrenner

Vice President: Brian Tai

Vice President: Bob Weaver

VI. Meetings: Due to the large number of members, Outdoors at UVa schedules a wide variety of outdoor recreational activities (including, but not limited to, outdoor rock climbing, hiking, camping, canoeing, kayaking, mountain biking, caving, skiing, and trail running) through its website and email list. However, we have occasional meetings that take the form of potlucks so that members may get to know other club members who go on different types of trips, as well as to plan larger more ambitious trips.  Officers discuss club business via an email mail list, and also meet periodically on an as-needed basis.

VII. Finance: The SAF allocation will be used to finance equipment purchase and maintenance, transportation, wilderness first aid training, and lodging costs. Membership dues of either $30 per member per year (12 months) or $20 per member per semester (5 months) will also be used to offset costs not supported by the SAF allocations, such as food and activities fees incurred on a variety of trips throughout the year.

VIII. Liability: Membership is contingent upon signing a waiver releasing Outdoors at UVa from liability for any harm or injury sustained on an Outdoors at UVa facilitated excursion.

IX. Non-Discrimination Disclaimer: The organization will not restrict membership and/or activity by reason of age, citizenship, color, disability, gender, race, religion, national origin, political affiliation, sexual orientation, or status as a disabled veteran or veteran of the Vietnam eras. Notwithstanding these requirements, the organization may restrict membership based on an ability to perform the activities related to the organizations purpose.